---
date: 2015-01-24
anchor: resin-dust-everywhere
template: tk.html
title: Resin Dust Everywhere
---
Aside from the parts of the folding stock that I wanted to hollow, many of the
parts in the kit had extra bits of resin attached that left over from the
molding process. Time to use the Dremel again!

<aside class="extra-info">
    Make sure you wear a respirator mask that's rated for dusting and sanding!
</aside>

To reduce the amount of dust that ended up across the room, I set up the vacuum
cleaner next to my work area to suck away the dust as it was generated. It
wasn't quite as effective as I'd hoped, but it helped a little.

The trigger was one of the pieces that had extra resin, with about 1/16" to the
side of the trigger, which was enough to keep the trigger from properly fitting
into its place in the grip. This might have been easier with a sander instead
of the Dremel, but in the end the piece was slimmed down pretty well:

![Ground trigger piece](/images/blaster/trigger-trimmed.jpg)

While getting to that point, the tiny trigger piece slipped while I was
grinding and ended up in the last place I wanted it:

![Trigger piece in vacuum](/images/blaster/trigger-vacuum.jpg)

Twice.

But eventually the piece was finished and fit snugly inside the handle:

![Trigger piece in handle](/images/blaster/trigger-fit.jpg)

The guard pieces that go by the ejection port and front vent hole had some
extra material too. Those were cleaned up, but will need a little bit of
patching to clean up air bubbles from the molding process.

![Vent covers with extra material removed](/images/blaster/vent-covers.jpg)

The D-ring holder that goes on the back of the blaster had a post through the
middle. Since I'm going to replace the D-ring that came with the kit, it needed
to be ground out:

![D-ring holder](/images/blaster/d-ring-holder.jpg)


Bolts
-----
The next major bit of work was grinding down the hex bolts on the front of the
blaster. The original barrel had shapeless blob of resin where there should
have been 1/4"-20 hex bolts, so I ground out those spots as well so I can add
real bolts.

![Front of barrel with resin bolts ground away][barrel-front-drilled]
[barrel-front-drilled]: /images/blaster/barrel-front-drilled.jpg

My preferred way of placing the new bolts would be to drill out holes for them,
thread the holes, and screw them in directly, but unfortunately there isn't
quite enough material on the barrel for this to work well. I did manage to get
one of the bolts to fit this way, but the hole wasn't quite straight enough and
the bolt ended up crooked. In the end, I'll need to grind out the holes and
glue the bolts in. Here's what they'll look like when they're finally in place:

![Front of barrel with bolts added](/images/blaster/barrel-front-screws.jpg)

I used fine files to clean up some of the rough spots on the blaster - seams,
bumps, and muddy-looking sections of the parts.

The bottom of the handle had another hex bolt molded into the part, so I
drilled that out and added a real one just for detail's sake. To make room for
the head of the bolt, I used a 7/16" bit for 1/4" or so, then used a smaller
one for adding the actual bolt. This bolt is the same size as the ones on the
front of the blaster.

![Bolt on the bottom of the grip](/images/blaster/grip-screw.jpg)


Safety Switch
-------------
A movable safety switch should be a nice detail on the finished blaster, but
the space where the switch goes is a bit more constrained than I really want it
to be since it's so close to the handle. I won't be able to screw the piece on
after the blaster's painted. The best solution I could think of was setting a
small machine screw through the handle, then embedding a nut in the switch.
When the pieces are painted, I'll be able to screw the nut on and glue on the
switch, which should be enough to leave let the switch move freely.

Drilling the hole means cutting out some of the grip texturing:

![Safety screw hole][grip-safety-hole1]
![Safety screw hole through grip texture][grip-safety-hole2]
[grip-safety-hole1]: /images/blaster/grip-safety-hole1.jpg
[grip-safety-hole2]: /images/blaster/grip-safety-hole2.jpg

But when the nut is set in the safety switch and attached, everything works:

![Safety switch](/images/blaster/safety-switch.jpg)
![Safety test assembly](/images/blaster/safety-assembled.jpg)

Trigger
-------
I want my trigger to move too. I've seen a few builds that have a pen spring
behind the trigger to add motion, but setting the spring in the handle seemed
like a pain. Instead, I realized I had some magnets lying around:

![Magnets](/images/blaster/magnets.jpg)

These magnets have a 1/4" diameter and are 1/16" tall, and fit in the trigger
slot perfectly. To make sure this would work, I drilled a hole for one magnet
into the trigger slot, then taped another to the trigger so that the magnets'
opposite poles were facing each other:

![Testing magnets](/images/blaster/trigger-test.jpg)

And it worked! The magnets repel each other enough for the trigger to pop back
quickly, and the trigger action feels surprisingly smooth. With some confidence
in the final result, I drilled a hole and glued one magnet into the back of the
trigger. It is crooked, but won't be visible on the final blaster.

![Trigger magnet](/images/blaster/trigger-magnet.jpg)

The trigger itself was fastened to the handle using a short machine screw. The
holes will be filled in later. With that, I secured the handle to the barrel
using E6000 glue and some wood screws - one directly behind the magnet that
sits in the trigger, the other pointing straight up.

![Grip attached to barrel](/images/blaster/assembled-grip.jpg)
